[Music]
welcome everybody my name is Dr Eduardo
vran I'm a uh M medical doctor I'm also
an integrative functional medical doctor
that works within the field of vitamin D
today I have H Dr Thomas Saed yes he is
a leading researcher and professor in
the field of cancer biology and
metabolism and he is best known for his
pioneering work that I have taken the
time to read and read his book uh which
I think is fascinating um and which
challenges conventional genetic based
model of cancer development I think Dr
sa freed is research is actually quite a
Marvel to see you know and focuses on
the idea that cancer is primarily a
metabolic disease rather than just
purely genetic one U and everything
related to mitochondrial dysfunction
makes a whole lot of sense when you
start putting the pieces
together Dr sa is also a professor at
the Boston College and that's where he
does all of his research and uh he's
dedicated I think all of his life to
trying to find an answer and solutions
to be able to cheer to cure and treat
patients who have cancer something that
I admire very much and thanks to your
book uh Dr Saed I've been able to help
my patients my cancer patients and
improve their outcomes and even some of
them even reaching remission which is
something that I never thought I would
be doing one day so I have a great
respect for your work Dr Saed and I
think that many people need to hear what
you are doing your contribution is a
great one for for Humanity I think you
know and I hope one day you receive like
a Noble Prize for what you're doing here
you know yeah well well thank you very
much Eduardo it's nice to be here and
have the opportunity to uh address
address your questions you know it's not
I I didn't plan my life to be here to to
do this th this is a very interesting no
one can plan uh years in advance of of
what they do when you're trained in
foundational principles of biology and
genetics like I was at Illinois State
University with Herman Brockman and at
the University of Illinois with Bill
with Bill Daniel and Evelyn Weber and
then at Yale University in the epilepsy
field and then here you know it
converges at some point where you begin
to connect the dots from a lot of diff
diverse fields and I was always doing
research not always but we we had a lot
of tumors and epilepsy and all these
things and eventually you get crossed
wires and all of a sudden you make
observations uh that are foundationally
solid scientifically but not recognized
or appreciated by the entire cancer
field and then you find yourself you
think you're crazy uh because you see
something so clear and everybody else is
still beating the bush look looking for
gene mutations exactly which are largely
irrelevant to the nature of the
disease it's unbelievable so yes oh well
you know I the way how things are taught
in medical school for you know medical
doctors and and residents you know we we
have no idea I mean we just basically
follow you know protocols protocols
protocols this drug for this this type
of cancer this struck for this other
type of disease and and literally they
don't teach us the F the foundations you
know how you know cancer actually really
plays plays out right um and this is
something that should be incorporated
into medical schools you know it should
be taught you know we should be
receiving this type of education I think
and uh and there's there's a shift that
needs to take place you know in in
medical education yeah well well they
are getting that they're they're getting
the education when all my students go to
Medical School uh their first year in
the biochemistry and principles they say
cancer is a genetic disease uh and they
tell you about all these wonderful
mutations that are causing disregulated
cell growth and you got to Target this
and Target that yeah and and they never
said they they either don't know or
don't understand that it's not a genetic
disease and we have we have clearly
shown that these mutations are
Downstream epiphenomena of damage to the
oxidative phosphor Elation and they
don't say that in the medical schools
they and if they do they get their hands
slapped or or they're told don't don't
say
that you know it's like yeah it's crazy
you know I mean and the idea I mean I've
had I've had a couple of encounters with
some oncologists and when we start
talking about you know metabolic therapy
all of a sudden their eyes start to roll
back you know but I understand you know
where they're coming from and the way
how they you know been doctrin I guess
you could say to thinking in such a way
but you need to have people that
actually go out there and try to you
know start changing the you know the
there has to be a shift you know in the
way of we think and do things you know
and one of the best ways to do that is
by bringing information to to all the
public even doctors
because I've seen a lot of your videos
and many of the interviews that you give
with a lot of people and you know I
every time I see one of your videos I
learn something new you know um but I
think it's always important to also
bring this information to South America
I mean people down over there they need
to be able to know what's actually going
on you know in in other parts of the
world right and and and this this
interview obviously is going to be
translated to Portuguese and also to
Spanish so people over there in South
America will be be able to to see you
know what you have to say and and so my
question is uh Dr sa freed so what got
you into uh metabolic therapy to begin
with how how did that all begin well you
know as I said we were doing work on
epilepsy at Yale University um and I had
developed a lot of models uh for
epilepsy and um we were mapping genes we
were genetic I'm a geneticist mamalian
geneticist biochemist by trade and uh
you know the the hot thing was map map
jeans map jeans find the genes that are
causing the epileptic seizures a and we
were doing that and we were looking at
very polygenic traits and multifactorial
traits and it was always a gene
environmental interaction of some sort
uh we car we looked at back at goers
dick them all the foundational
principles of the field of epilepsy and
we had models that mimicked all this
kind of stuff then one of my students
said oh there's a big meeting in Seattle
Washington uh on on ketogenic diets uh
for for epilepsy and when I was at Yale
I I thought maybe I could write an
internal grant for epilep uh for
ketogenic diet to study myep epilepsy
Model A nobody is in they said well
don't waste your time uh epilep uh
ketogenic diet for epilepsy is p uh the
big thing is molecular molecular
targeting same thing uh molecular
targeting of of genes that uh disrupt
electrical excitability in the brain so
find those genes they were telling me
okay I'll map I'll publish papers
mapping genes and I did all this stuff
and then when my student came back she
was so excited about Jim Abrams uh and
Char at the Charlie foundation and all
this uh about ketogenic diet stopping
all kinds of epilepsy so I put it on the
mice the calorie restricted ketogenic oh
my God all these all these mice stop
seizing it didn't make any damn
difference what the gene was they it
affected the whole physiology of the of
the mouse she stopped seizing and then
we realized that it was mostly calorie
restriction and we linked it to low
glucose and elevated ketones and it was
really the glucose uh shifting that was
stopping the seizures the ketones were
elevated as a compensatory signal uh but
we were doing biochemistry of brain
tumors in the lab at the same time
looking at glycosphingolipid metabolism
I was a big shot in this whole area
glyos Fingal lipids characterizing all
these things oh yeah we had we were
foundational hard hardcore Brute Force
biochemist and geneticist so I clearly
had to I clearly had the background and
the knowhow about every all this kind of
stuff and then we said oh let's throw
some uh ketogenic diet at these mice
restricted calorie oh my God it was more
powerful to reduce tumors than it was in
the epilepsy thing exactly I had no clue
and then uh Linda nebling at at Case
Western Reserve University uh gave two
little hopeless kids uh highgrade Leoma
kids a ketogenic diet and they both
responded remarkably well uh and I said
wow look at that and I said how that
what's going on with this and she said
it might have something to do with the
work of OT warberg so I I always heard
of and most of us in field of
biochemistry have heard of Otto warberg
the problem is I didn't know what he
really did and then I started looking at
at his papers and reading them over and
over I read warberg some of warberg
papers more than 50 times um and each
time I I read it I find another kernel
of new information that I didn't know or
didn't appreciate and then I said wow
warberg said that all cancer results
from a defect in oxidative
phosphorilation coupled to a
compensatory
fermentation and uh uh which means that
the fermentation driven by glucose and
uh we started looking at um mitochondria
in in in Mouse brain tumors and found
they they all their mitochondria were
defective in one way or the other yes
and they were all dependent on glucose I
said my God this guy warberg must have
had it
right and and then I said why uh oh and
then you look in and everybody said
warberg was wrong I said what oh my God
okay warberg is wrong should I waste my
time and then and then I I found out um
they said he was wrong because tumor
cells take in as much oxygen as normal
cells and therefore oxidative
phosphorilation can't be uh the cause of
cancer like warberg said in his
hypothesis so uh and that changed the
whole well the FI the field ran off
chasing jeans like Lemmings over the
cliff that mindless a Mindless Mass
migration of top scientists yeah running
after genes leaving leaving the
metabolism field to to rest in peace
pretty much forget about warberg forget
about all this stuff let's go chase
jeans um just like the epilepsy field
right everybody chasing anything man you
find a anything wrong with you found
some gene mutation like it's run you
know so uh uh but any event yeah so
everybody was chasing jeans and I'm
sitting there saying wait a minute now
this guy warberg may not have been wrong
I I did research in my lab that seems to
support what this guy is saying yeah so
I I said what the hell so I started then
we did a deep dive on the structure of
mitochondria and man they're broken up
they're they're not efficient they're
not functional and then I he said he
said oh then they have to start
fermenting glucose so the field those
guys that are not that are chasing but
also doing metabolism said well warberg
is wrong because the tumor cells are
taken in oxygen so what I I what I have
done since then is we have now found
that tumor cells do indeed take in
oxygen like normal cells but they're not
using it for exact oxidor
phosphorilation exactly yeah to make
reactive oxygen species which is causing
the mutations in the nucleus that's
right so I said oh my God this whole
cancer field is off the wrong path
they're off on the wrong path they're
chasing tails they're chasing effects
that's just that's just mindblowing yeah
so so when you do all that and then you
and then our big Discovery now we we
validated what warberg did but we found
something that he never knew about and
that was the fermentation of the amino
acid glutamine he and the field all the
field talks about is glycolysis and oxos
glycolysis and oxos we have now found in
the mitochondria itself the broken
mitochondria can get energy from
fermenting the the amino acid glutamine
oh my God this is
unbelievable now we can now we can we
can uh fix up so much of the confusion
and bring the field back on track these
damn cancer cells need to ferment it's
it's a it's it's a necessity it's a
requirement they can't live without the
F why because their oxos is insufficient
not that it's not that complicated and
but yet when you look at a the NCI
National Cancer Institute says oh
there's 100 different diseases all very
complicated everybody's complicated
complicated complicated yeah because
you're looking at the wrong you're
working under the wrong Theory so bring
it right back you bring it back on track
and cancer can be managed very very
effectively non- toxically if you
simultaneously Target the fuels that are
driving to disregulated growth exactly
exactly I can be Testament to that
because I've seen I've seen my patients
improve I've seen patients who have
colon cancer I've seen patients who have
breast cancer
melanoma I mean I'm an internist and a
dermatologist and I treat my patients
with using your metabolic therapy and
and I do you know Hyperbaric medicine as
well you know and vitamin C and we also
use some Med some repurpose medications
like you also proposed as well uh like
mebendazol and and we do see the results
I mean it's it's just it's it's
outstanding you know and and I I I
personally you know at first I must be
honest with you Dr Saed I was a little
bit skeptical you know and I felt you
know well I don't know maybe I had a lot
of doubts like any doctor would you know
and I think that's that's that's a
normal a normal response from any you
any practical position but then you
start looking at I started reading your
book you know and then I said well you
know what that makes so much sense you
know the mitochondrial dysfunction and
everything and glucose and glutamine and
I was like this guy's right you know
there's a lot of things that's going on
here that make sense so I took a risk
you know and I I had this I was a it was
a very close family member of mine who
was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma the
large intestine and I said you know what
um I think we should give it a try this
we should give another approach to this
you know because it was already stage
three you know and the doctors basically
told you know we don't the way how the
tumors sit in and everything
going to be very hard to to operate you
know uh and we're not going to be able
to take out
everything and and said you know what we
we should consider going a different
route and we did that and thankfully
today is still alive he's in remission
no cancer you know and he's kicking you
know and he's always very thankful for
everything and he's a big very big you
know fan of your work he watches all of
your videos by the way yeah well well
you know I I tell you th those are the
kinds of patients that respond the best
um because I get all these emails
constantly from all these poor folks and
they usually come to metabolic therapy
after everything fails uh they've been
they've been treated with toxic poisons
uh massive doses of radiation surgical
mutilations you know all these kinds of
cut slash burn and you know your body
has beat the hell uh we we did not
evolve to be taking Red Devil doc
rubison into our pissing red and all
this kind stuff this is nuts what are
you doing to these people I mean crazy
yeah and then they still survive they
they it's hard to kill a human being
doing all
this
right they still survive but then their
body is so beat up the cancer eventually
uh takes over but when we get uh fresh
people people that were just diagnosed
and they weren't treated with the
standards of care uh they respond the
best and and and if they're if they're
on board with what they have to shoulder
in their uh in their battle with cancer
this is truly oh he's battling his
cancer when you do metabolic therapy you
are in fact battling your cancer yes
when you standard the care you sit there
like some mannequin being nuked and
poisoned you know so um but yeah a lot
of it so falls on the shoulders of the
patient so what we what we did we
developed the glucose Ketone index
calculator yes uh which is to call the
gki the glucose Ketone index and when
cancer patients get into the low gki of
two .0 or below that's where blood sugar
comes down ketones come up uh those
cancer cells start getting hammered and
they start getting weak and they start
stuff suffering and then we come in uh
with the endol and and Fen bendol and
some of these other drugs and and we
start targeting the glutamine the GL the
uh and I and then we wrote The Press
pulse therapeutic strategy which Dov
Tales evolutionary biology uh
paleobiology into the treatment of
cancer and that was the framework uh uh
the what clinicians could do but we did
not have a day-to-day treatment protocol
uh for that we put the skeleton the
framework of the strategy that will
eventually be will will eventually
become the standard of care for cancer
um but the paper we have under review
right now fleshes out the skeleton and
really really it's a comprehensive
treatment protocol allowing Physicians
to know what to do if they see this
change when they see that so it's a
really it's a really comprehensive fre
and it on once that's out in the in the
public when we can publish it open
access um and therefore patients can
just simply take that throw it on the
doctor's desk and say just do this for
me will you oh that'd be awesome I can't
wait yeah I'm so excited um I think I I
I I truly know that you know it's it's
the hardest thing I guess for patients
is that and I'm talking on behalf of of
my patients obviously I think the
hardest thing is that um they have to
you know once they're diagnosed they
tell them hey you have cancer you know
they have to you know confront the
system yeah and the the system is just
it's a it's a monster I'm gonna I'm
gonna be straightforward it it literally
is a big monster that puts on a lot of
fear a lot of pressure I mean these
patients are really you know pressured
into chemotherapy radiation surgery and
it's it's overwhelming you know how they
they they just B they're they're afraid
I mean everybody who has cancer I mean
obviously they're going to be afraid
um and finding you know someone that
works within the field of metabolic
therapy to be able to treat their cancer
patients you know first of all there
aren't many providers out there to begin
with so I think it's it's important that
we start you know training doctors you
know training Physicians and training
Healthcare Providers with metabolic
therapy because we need more people
trained in this field you know I mean
it's it has a tremendous impact on
patients lives you know and this is why
I think that your work that you're doing
is you know it's it's it's well that's
the that's the um that's the you you
actually touched the the the the real
weakness in this whole thing is that
there's very few people trained there
there they never heard of what we're
saying uh because they were told cancer
is a genetic Disease by the top uh
leaders in the field at the top medical
schools the top Cancer Centers the
National Cancer Institute they all say
cancer is a genetic dis how could all
these folks be wrong um they're wrong
they're flat wrong uh I have all the
evidence to show that if people read it
exactly but once one okay so but we
don't want to throw out the what they're
doing uh because once you realize that
if you take the patient when they're
first diagnosed and then put them on a
met a rigorous metabolic therapy they
get healthier and healthier and then if
you need to use chemo uh you can use it
in very restricted dosages uh very low
dosages at at predictable times yeah uh
and therefore I get more bang for your
buck uh killing tumor cells while not
harming the patient and you can do that
for radiation for all tissues except
brain we've clearly indicated that
radiating somebody's brain is like the
worst thing you can do to and it
contributes it it's responsible for for
um preventing long-term survival for
brain cancer is largely responsible for
taking that opportunity away for people
um but all other so you we know that
when you irradiate somebody blood sugar
goes through the roof uh but if you
already are under a metabolically
restricted re regimen and you eradiate
in a small dose you can kill off a
buttload of tumor cells with minimal
toxicity oh yeah so so we're not and
even immunotherapies which are based on
an incorrect Theory uh if if you shrink
tumors down to are just a few surviving
cells that are not uh not completely
gone with metabolic therapy they they
may all share something in common
because they've been able to survive
what we threw at them then an
immunotherapy a targeted immunotherapy
might be able to hit the commonality of
all those cells and wipe them out
completely ex we have we have all of the
tools necessary for long-term resolution
of cancer with minimal toxicity it's
just that nobody knows how to use them
yet exactly and that's how it should be
done you know I think that's how we're
supposed to be you know giving we should
be you know using metabolic therapy as
the Priority First you know use that as
the leading you know source of treatment
and then use the other ones just kind of
like
backups I I think you know I mean at
least I see it in my patients and I have
a couple of patients they're not doing
any type of chemotherapy they're not
doing any type of radiation therapy you
know I know that and and yes you know
insulin potentiation therapy and all
that I think that does benefit to a
certain degree but my patients decided
Dr Bel and I do not want to go and do
chemotherapy anymore you know I've I've
had the side effects I've gotten sick
I've gotten worse I just want to deal
with it anymore I want to work with this
and I said okay we'll do it and then
when we start working with you know
metabolic therapy doing the ketogenic
diet measuring their gki making sure
that they're taking their supplements
you know and doing Hyperbaric medicine
if it's available in their in their
their City we start seeing that the
cancer starts to to reduce in size and I
and one time we even had one of the the
radiologist called me and he said uh Dr
belan I'm a little bit concerned because
um this is the first time I'm seeing a
patient who had breast cancer and now
I'm starting to see that the breast
cancer has red reduced in 40% you know I
mean what are you doing
you and they they always they say the
same thing to me when my when when the
people I'm not a physician I can't do
what you do but but when the patients
show the oncologists how uh the they do
the cat MRI pet whatever they're looking
at and it's going down and it's getting
smaller and they always seem to be
miffed oh wow I don't know what happened
well for crying out loud we know exactly
what happened don't you read the
scientific literature unfortunately no
yeah yes it's it's it's incredible um Dr
Saed what would you think you know uh
the first thing a patient should
consider you know once they get
diagnosed with cancer what are first
things that you would recommend a
patient to start doing well uh in the in
the clinic that that uh we work with
some U Physicians assistants and things
like this who have a little bit more
flexibility in private clinics um the
first thing in our treatment protocol as
a matter of fact I'm just giving you the
upfront on this um you know we look at
the blood work of the patient we we and
and and we look very at things you would
never look well of course vitamin D for
sure and all the other things that we
look at parasites and and we see how
many parameters are out of balance uh in
the patient and and we find oftentimes
they have diabetes they have high blood
pressure hypertension they got all kinds
of things that screw up their blood work
um so we have to try to bring that
individual back to some level of of
metabolic
homeostasis and uh we can either do
water fat depending on the on the
patient or um zero carb diet for for
about 10 to 14 days um where they can
eat meat and they can eat fish and they
can eat chicken and they can eat you
know uh things but but there's no carbs
in the diet right and the body then
slowly re we're going back to our
Paleolithic we ancestry we we're all of
our ancestors uh 200,000 years ago were
always in nutritional ketosis and our
ancestors did not die from cancer they
died from infections and injuries
uh so we in our modern medicine we we
have antibiotics for infections and we
have orthopedic surgeons for for uh
injuries we can fix a lot of the things
that killed our ancestors and our
ancestors do not have diabetes or cancer
or high blood PR or dementia we that we
know of um so they were dying from other
things but once you bring the body back
into a state of nutritional ketosis um
the par blood parameters start to come
online and then we begin to t attack the
glutamine uh because all that will lower
glucose Elevate ketones tumor cells
can't use ketones or fatty acids so
that's a fuel for normal cells the tumor
cells are then marginalized but they
still survive because they have access
to the amino acid glutamine which is the
most abundant amino acid in our body
that's right but we can't go into
glutamine targeting like a bull in a
china shop be because that we need
glutamine for the gut uh the our immune
system needs glutamine the gut needs
glutamine the Ura cycle all of these
things are dependent on availability of
glutamine that's where we come in with
the pulse that's why we wrote The Press
pulse therapeutic strategy you can press
glucose down we don't need that and the
body can make little bits of it uh you
do exercise because when you ex if
you're on metabolic therapy and you
exercise muscle takes glucose out of the
blood muscle does not share glucose with
other organs and that's an evolutionary
conserved adaptation if a if a a
predator is chasing you you you better
be able to run and you shared all your
and the muscles you are now dead duck
this guy's going to eat you so uh and
the Brain what little is left in the
blood the brain has first dibs on that
the tumor is down the ladder way far uh
for its need for glute so it's going to
get hammered so you got to bring the
blood work back you you got to do some
exercise and then we go in strategically
with mendol Fen bendol and some other
drugs Dawn oh that's a powerful that's
the best there is wow which we can't get
a hold
uh but if we had that should be the
number one cancer drug used worldwide
it's Donna it's not used I know I know
uh so so if you could go ahead and
please explain uh to our to to my
audience you know in in in in Brazil and
in in in South America why glutamine you
know is so important for cancer for for
for cancer cells you know besides
glucose you know and why these
medications how these medications you
know
inhibit uh cancer growth yeah well uh
the cancer needs carbons and nitrogen to
grow energy you need ATP which is the
energy source and then you have to have
carbons because you need to synthesize
lipids proteins and nucleic acids right
so uh but where's the nitrogen coming
from glucose can provide all that but it
can't make proteins or nucleic acids uh
because there's a nitrogen shortage so
the glutamine comes in and glutamine has
two nitrogens the amide nitrogen and the
internal nitrogen so you can start using
those nitrogens for you recycle it makes
ammonia it does a lot of different
things and then of course you can
synthesize DNA RNA proteins uh with the
nitrogen that's coming from glutamine
also cancer cells are uh produce a lot
of reactive oxygen species which causes
the mutations and damages a lot of
things but they don't die because they
have a powerful an um antioxidant
biology and that antioxidant biology
comes from an elevation of glutathione
inside the cancer cell which is coming
from gluc glucose and and glutamine so
so not only is the glutamine needed for
nitrogen and growth uh it also protects
the cancer cell against its Ras damage R
damage yes and also as we have shown uh
it generates energy through uh what we
call substrate level mitochondrial
substrate level phosphorilation so it
can produce energy through fir in
absence of oxygen it's unbelievable so
this molecule is so important but if you
attack glutamine too aggressively you
damage your microbiome uh you damage
your antioxidant systems you damage you
you paralyze your immune system so when
we kill cancer cells we have to have an
army of immune cells coming into the
battlefield picking up the dead cancer
cell to corpses and if we if otherwise
you get infections and you get all kinds
of repercussions from so you have to on
that's why we call it pulsing pulse off
on off on off it keeps everything
working and you're killing these damn
cancer cells without toxicity what's
wrong with this yeah yeah that's that's
that's that's super super interesting
you know I I think you know is that it's
just the the way how we we see things
and and understanding how metabolism
plays a humongous role in how cancer you
know re reshapes literally its
environment around it it you know it's
pretty fascinating I mean the whole
field of cancer metabolism is is it's
it's impressive you know and you really
you really did a great job in in
explaining a lot of things in your book
I think you know whoever has the
opportunity to be able to read your book
you know if at least if you're the in
the healthcare field you know uh it's a
little bit complex for some maybe lay
person but definitely you did a great
job being explaining everything you know
everything just makes such such nice
sense have to realize it it makes sense
but you have to know the mechanisms of
action and the details and that's
explained in our Publications which are
open access yes so people always ask me
oh he didn't explain this he didn't do
that why go I can't in an hour do all
this I mean you're talking about 25 30
years of exper of of hard data
collection in the lab um but it's all
published in our papers uh so Dr sa so
let me go ahead and and and dive in a
little bit into I guess you could say my
feel because I I work with vitamin D you
know I'm a vitamin D researcher and I
treat a lot of patients with a protocol
that I also develop known as the leaky
gut syndrome protocol which I use high
vitamin D doses um what have you seen
that vitamin D does to be able to
benefit cancer
patients um well we we we we haven't
looked at that um other than when we do
the blood work and if it is low that
it's supplemented
so you want to you want to bring vitamin
D into the levels that are uh normal
probably on the higher range a little
bit more on the higher range of what you
can what you would normally do you don't
want to give them because you get if you
get too much vitamin D you can get a
kind of a neurotox vitamin D toxicity
toxicity yeah yeah and everything we
don't want to ever create anything so we
want to be balanced and and when you
find a lot of cancer patients have very
low levels of vitamin D
clearly that's one of the supplements
that you must introduce to the patient
to bring them back to metabolic
homeostasis uh and when you're in that
and then you relow the glucose that they
need to grow and then you come in with
glutamine targeting but always
maintaining the blood work in a in a in
a in a homeostatic state with vitamin D
you know and and all the other markers
that we look at and we when we do
calorie restricted ketogenic diet
metabolic therapy uh we see Tri
glycerides going way down the HDL goes
up LDL goes down vitamin D goes up all
the different things that and all of a
sudden man you say this guy should be
super healthy and then they say to us
I've never felt better in my life
exactly yes despite the fact that I have
this tumor and the idea is I said well
we're gonna the tumors doesn't feel so
you might feel good but the tumor does
not feel so good yeah well well one of
the things is Switching gears I guess we
could talk a little bit about the
microbi iome you know I think I think
this is this is the field of where we
now are starting to explore in the last
15 years the microbiome and it's it's
brought a lot of interesting things and
I think one of the things that we
started to notice is that there are some
cancers that obviously are associated
you know with certain types of bacterial
in infections you know like hpylori we
know that now it's been proven you know
many years ago that it's associated with
you know gastric cancer and all those
but um what I've seen at least uh is
that when I look at my patient who does
have you know uh cancer let's say you
know G intestinal cancer you know
carcinoma there are certain bacterias
that are you know associated with this
type of cancer you know or or you know
and one another things is that I see is
that once they go into chemotherapy
let's say they started chemotherapy you
know these drugs just you know they
literally destroy the microbiome such an
extent you know that you end up getting
I think one of the reasons one of the
reasons that obviously besides the side
effects that we know that these drugs
already do I mean but one of the reasons
why patients get worse is because their
microbiome has been so compromised you
know that it's really hard for them to
get back on track you know absolutely so
this is what I'm I'm saying um okay you
know important a healthy microbiome
contributes to global physiological
Health okay yes um now you have cancer
and we're going to blow the hell out of
your
microbiome it makes no damn sense you
know and then they say to you oh keep
your microbiome healthy while we poison
you and then blows the hell out of the
microbiome it makes no damn sense the
last thing you want to do is do this to
a patient because you need the
microbiome to be healthy so you can
recover and exactly diarrhea is the
clear sign that your microbiome is not
healthy exactly exactly so this is the
insanity of what we're doing to these
poor can patients I know I know well and
the thing is is that when you put we at
least when we put these patients on you
know uh a ketogenic restrictive diet you
know you know High fats a little bit of
protein and no carb no very little carbs
um their microbiome starts to improve
literally you know you start seeing a
shift you know I've done so many
microbiome tests and I start seeing you
know how they were in the beginning some
of them have candida some of them have
parasites some have bad bugs you name it
but then you start
changing the diet and it's incredible
how you start noticing not only
improvements in in Alpha diversity of
the microbiome and but you know you
start seeing these good the good
bacterias that we're supposed to be
having starting to come back you know
like acrania B bacteria laab bacillus
you name them and and then you start
comp I I here's the thing is that I just
I have I have this Niche I guess you
could say for the microbiome and vitamin
D and metabolic therapy and diet as a
more logical sensitive you know approach
for being able to treat t i yeah I look
at those as uh signs that uh that if you
can keep the microbiome healthy the
vitamin D levels all these things uh in
a in a homeostatic uh state in a healthy
uh range uh then we go after the
cancer uh and and maintain healthy biome
uh while we're degrading the tumor that
so we don't ever want to uh do anything
that's going to Red reduce the metabolic
homeostasis of Health um so but what
we're doing now is just the opposite of
of what we're doing and you also have to
realize the
microbiome in our species can be very
varied uh you have to realize uh members
of our ancestries hundreds of thousands
of years ago some of these guys our
ancestors lived in the Arctic Circle uh
some of them lived in the rainforest uh
some of them lived in the desert so the
desert microbiome is not going to be the
same thing as the Arctic microbiome or
the rain Stars microbiome exactly we
have this incredible flexibility that we
can maintain Health uh based on the
cultural and Regional microbiome uh of
our area of existence so when we do
metabolic therapy we have to be
cognizant of cultural and religious
differences in how and how we we uh uh
keep ourselves healthy in these
different conditions so when I say we
use the glucose Ketone index calculator
to determine it whether we're in
metabolic homeostasis that can be done
with a vegan diet a carnivore diet a
mediter diet a pescatarian diet so you
build the diet around the gki to
maintain healthy microbiome and other
physiological process so this makes the
physician he has to be
knowledgeable about these different
things when he's treating his patient so
this is called Precision Nutrition
exactly yes
yes it's going to be a new field of
medicine I I I'm 100% on board on that
100% On Board you know I think that's
the way to go and definitely you know
whatever you put into your intestines go
they definitely you know your microbiome
is going to be the first one to respond
out there you know yeah but and that
just just just dates back all the way to
H hypocrates you know it's just he was
so right on that
um but what I can say for a fact is that
I think one of the major issues I think
that doctors have is that we just lack
enough education on human nutrition you
know I mean at least when I was in
medical school you know I
didn't if I did receive any type of
education on nutrition it would probably
be like a total of Pops eight hours max
you know and that's it so well they gave
you the food pyramid and which is wrong
the food
pyramid as well you know um but we go
back to our ancestors and how did they
live what was the what was the uh H how
did and how do we know that because
Albert schwitzer and others Physicians
humanitarian Physicians they went into
these populations of of folks that live
according to their traditional ways and
they had infections and they had things
but they didn't have cancer uh they
didn't have a lot of the chronic
diseases that that we have and a lot of
them had a lot of exercise and they were
eating a lot of natural foods from the
environment they wen't eating large
amounts of Highly processed carbs that
in a package that you could keep on the
shelf for six months and not go bad so
um so you look at it and you see they
slept they had a better sleeping they
had more friends more social
interactions they weren't sitting in
front of a computer all day or in
traffic uh there wasn't anything to
increase the kinds of stress that we
have chronic stress so you put it all
together the Great American diet and
lifestyle is what's ultimately
responsible for all the health problems
Brazil isn't very far away from that
reality we we have very similar problems
you know that's what I said the greatest
gift of America is the Great American
diet lifestyle obesity dementia
cancer yeah yeah yeah people goodness
yeah they love this stuff I mean you
can't I me you gotta pry them away you
you know as I said you go to McDonald's
you don't even have to unas the car they
they hand you it right through the
window I mean that's a hell of a lot
better than having to track down some
deer and kill it you
know and then try to you know hack apart
his liver and everything to get some
organ you know it's it's the what where
where I tell everybody this we're we're
still Paleolithic people living in a
modern age and our technology evolves so
much faster than our biology biological
evolution takes eons and eons and the
obese people we see today are the living
ancestors of those that survive famine
hardship in the past uh we have an
incredible ability to store energy
because we were always starving exactly
yeah now we have all the stuff that
we've had needed for hundreds of
thousands of years at our fingertips and
we have all these chronic diseases not
complicated I know I know it's just it's
it's just crazy you know but I think we
I wish I could you know share this video
once this video is done you know when I
start sharing it all throughout every
part of you know South America and
everyone I think the biggest challenge
is that you have to really convince
people that diet is like the most
important thing that you can do to be
able to help yourself get better you
know especially if you have well it's
it's diet and and and exercise exercise
is absolutely critical exercise of
course no and there's and there's
several other of them reduce mental
stress uh stress stress screws up your
microbiome and it screws up your health
uh poor sleep at night um no happiness
you gota you got to be enjoying things
you know people are are rumpy they're
this they're that they microbiome is
screwed up that makes them unhappy you
know it's all linked to the same the
same thing metabolic homeostasis and the
enjoyment of life and exercise and we're
sitting in traffic we're not getting the
exercise our ancestors had so uh when I
say ancestors I'm talking about
Paleolithic ancestors of course of
course yeah we the way our way of life
has definitely changed to a great extent
and yeah and I think that you know even
children nowadays we're seeing so such a
I mean the incidence of cancer is just
skyrocketed you know and I just wanted
to have your your thoughts on that
obviously I know what what the answer is
but for our audience you know that are
listening
um why do you think why do you think we
have so many diseases not just diabetes
hypertension autoimmunity and cancer but
why do you think you know um we just
such have such a high incidence of all
these diseases today yeah yeah it's our
our our diet and life style is what's is
what's killing us um you know it's not a
mystery here uh but we've we've produced
all of the things that we've craved in
our evolutionary past and now we have
them available and that's not how we
evolv so so you have increases in autism
you have incre increases in neuros
psychiatric problems cancer diabetes
obesity I mean all of these are diet and
lifestyle issues uh we our gen you know
how hard it is to get cancer um there's
a couple of studies actually one I think
came out of Brazil uh with macak monkeys
I I know was South America I can't be
sure it was Brazil they they took these
monkeys because monkeys are genetically
more similar to us than say mice or rats
we're 50 million years of evolutionary
difference between a mouse and a human
we share a lot of course but we don't
share everything but monkeys share a lot
more than us so they took these monkeys
and we we know that 20 methyl chanine is
recognized as a chemical carcinogen
people know that so they they rubbed and
they they rubbed the carcinogen onto the
skin of these monkeys year in and year
out and and and the monkeys were not
getting cancer at all so H but they but
the the mice and and rats would get
cancer from it but they were feeding the
mice and rats like a higher carbohydrate
diet than they had the monkeys were
eating their natural diet they didn't
get cancer so then they started to
inject to feed the monkey the carcinogen
inject the carcinogen 10 years and they
got one damn monkey that has some sort
of a minor growth and the conclusion of
the experiment was monkeys are not a
good model for
cancer now if you took those monkeys and
gave them jelly donuts and Big Macs
every day and rubb the carcinogen on
them you'd have an altogether different
outcome theyd have a CRA bad
microbiome and you have a cat walk
around the cage putting the fear God
into
[Laughter]
then you could say then you could say
that you have the right model right
yeah oh that's
great the gorillas and the chimpanzees I
told you I go to the zoos and I always
ask the veterinarians how come you don't
give these guys Big Macs and and and
jelly donuts oh they say it's animal
cruelty you can't do that it's
unhealthy they're 98% similar to
us they have a a in San Diego the San
Diego Zoo it's a very famous one and
they have these bonobos and I guess they
they have a treat every week the
Zookeeper puts a little honey on a tiny
little plate and and hides the plate
somewhere in this large cage with a
natural kind of environment but the
monkeys know the bonobos here they won't
come out until the temperature is 70
degrees they're one of these things that
they like to be comfortable all the time
so they hear somebody out there and they
know that that plate is being hidden so
when they know that conf once what
temperature hits 70 degrees they come
flying out of this cave and they're
tearing up everything looking for the
plate and the the one guy who gets it
keeps it for himself and licks it all
off so nobody else
has I said well they they learned they
learned I guess so I said go down and
give him a whole six dozen jelly donuts
and see what
happens well I guess that's that's how
Evolution started we discovered sugar
yeah well you know I always said I
always said I wanted the one of the
greatest Innovations of humankind
besides the development of learning how
to use fire and there's always a
downside to everything but who was the
first guy to figure out how you can get
honey from a beehive by smoking the bees
so you don't get stung the the the
dumbass bear has to stick his nose into
the hive get his eyes and tongue stung
and he'll experience the pain just to
have the sweetness from the honey but
you know we're smarter than that we
found that if you smoke these damn bees
they won't bite you the dumbass bear
doesn't know
this but that's how that's how important
sweetness is for our evolutionary past
and now we have sweet and everything we
put high fructose corn syrupent
everything and everybody wonders why
they're demented and fat
and diabetes it's unbelievable it's
unbelievable
[Music]
well you know Dr safreed I know that
your time is very limited but I am very
happy you know that you made some time
for me today and uh what would be your
words you know to to anybody who's going
through uh you know a situation where
they might be you know diagnosed with
cancer what would you tell them you know
well I I think the first thing you need
to do is get your GK gki down as quickly
as possible then go see your oncologist
uh and then then outline a plan uh of
therapy recognizing that cancer is a
metabolic disease and how can their
Tools H help you manage this um so and
of course you're going to get slapped
down most of the time uh and it's going
to be very embarrassing for both the
patient and the and the caregiver
because you're raising uncomfortable
things you're not just following a
standard of care don't forget in the
United States we have uh uh 1,000 almost
1,700 people 1,700 a day dying from
cancer which comes to about 70 an hour
can you believe this that's crazy almost
612,000 a year and we're not making any
we're not dropping the death rate at all
we're not it goes up year in and year
out so whatever we're doing it's not
working metabolic therapy will drop the
death rate people need to know that if
they want to stay alive they're going to
have to get their glucose and then we
have the meter the keto Mojo meter you
can buy it from Amazon you can get all
the consumables so people can absolutely
take charge then you can consider chemo
and radiation and surgical the other
procedes yeah yeah you know but all that
is need needs to be known yeah
definitely I I couldn't agree more I
think you know um we need to get the
word out we need people to be aware that
there is an option there is an
alternative and that should be the
actually the first thing that they
should be choosing to do you know um And
in regards to do you have any words that
you would like to to to send to Future
doctors that are
becoming well will become a future
doctor future nurse practitioner future
healthc care provider what would you
tell them read my
book I got it right over here now that
let me tell you w water that is the
correct book
unfortunately that on Amazon you'll see
all these other books say written by me
I didn't write any of those books yeah
I'm I'm aware I know it's it's cancer as
a metabolic disease written by to Dr
Thomas Saed it has to be by Thomas
safreed there are other books out there
I am aware of that you know I'm gon
share the link I'm gonna share the link
on your book so people can be able to
find it and make sure that they know uh
which book to to to to buy and people to
purchase so they can go ahead and read
it it's a it's a it's a marvelous book
that you wrote you know I really enjoyed
it a lot I think it was it's an ey
opener for I think anybody who reads it
you know it's going to be a very big eye
opener and and the the book I the book
is dedicated to all the people that
suffered and died from toxic treatments
for cancer I know so it's not it's not
to any it's to the field um and I
apologize for the price I did not set
the price of that book The Publisher I
think I mean anybody you know who buys
your book they know what they're going
to be getting I mean this is a precious
book you know it's oneof a kind you know
um and anybody you know who obviously is
going to be going through this you know
and I'm not only just talking to the
patients but also referring to anybody
who is a doctor who is a healthc care
provider you know this is a book that
you must learn you must read it you know
Dr Dr safreed sets everything explains
everything such a nice manner you know
it really it really it really has been a
life Cher for many of my patients you
know and I can't be so thankful you know
for everything that you're doing all
your research please keep on you know
bringing more more information to us you
know please keep on the good work that
you're doing Dr safreed you know you are
a a a light for many you know you have
no idea the impact that you're having on
my patients lives you know so I only can
just say you know good things about you
and and commend you for everything that
you're doing and and just congratulate
you you know because uh we need people
more people like you on the world well
thank you very much and and you're one
of those new people
too thank you
alrighty well uh thank you so much Dr sa
for your time um uh this is Dr Thomas
Saed he's the author of cancer as a
metabolic disease uh he is also the
professor at Boston College that's
correct and uh please take your time
read the book it's excellent you're
gonna love it okay Dr Thomas thank you
so much for your time you have been an
excellent uh person to interview to
today you know I think what you what you
have done you know in regards to the
cancer and everything uh therapy as a
metabolic disease is uh we need more
people like you in the world well thank
you very much it was a real pleasure to
be here thank you
[Music]